# 2019 Science Plan

**Science Plan for Improving Three-Dimensional Seismic Velocity Models
in the San Francisco Bay Region, 2019–24**,
[USGS Open-File Report 2020-1019](https://pubs.er.usgs.gov/publication/ofr20201019)

## Abstract

This five-year science plan outlines short-term and long-term goals
for improving three-dimensional seismic velocity models in the greater
San Francisco Bay region as well as how to foster a community effort
in reaching those goals. The short-term goals focus on improving the
current U.S. Geological Survey San Francisco Bay region geologic and
seismic velocity model using existing data. The long-term goals focus
on acquiring new data and leveraging better analytic tools to improve
the model and characterize the uncertainty. The plan describes
opportunities for contributions by members of the community to develop
these seismic velocity models, provides current and potential users
with general information on where efforts will likely be focused to
improve these models and how new versions of the models will be
released, and outlines funding needs and obstacles for improving and
maintaining such models. Several aspects of this plan, including how
to foster a community effort, are independent of the geographic region
and apply to other similar efforts.

## Suggested Citation

Aagaard, B.T., Graymer, R.W., Thurber, C.H., Rodgers, A.J., Taira, T.,
Catchings, R.D., Goulet, C.A., and Plesch, A., 2020, Science plan for
improving three-dimensional seismic velocity models in the San
Francisco Bay region, 2019–24: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report
2020–1019, 37 p., https://doi.org/10.3133/ofr20201019.
